# Lecture 4

## Questions to Answer!!
<hr>

### **For Functional Requirements**
* Are all the inputs to the system specified, including their source, accuracy, range of values, and frequency?
* Are all the outputs to the system specified, including their source, accuracy, range of values, frequency, and format?
* Are all the output formats specified for Web pages, reports, and so on?
* Are all the external hardware and software interfaces specified?
* Are all the external communication interfaces specified, including hand-shaking, error-checking, and communication protocols?
* Are all the tasks the user wants to perform specified?
* Is the data used in each task and the data resulting from each task specified?

### **For Non-Functional Requirements**
* Is the expected response time, from the user's POV, specified for all necessary operations?
* Are other timing considerations specified, such as processing time, data-transfer rate, and system throughput?
* Is the level of security specified?
* Is the reliability specified, including the consequences of software failure, the vital information that needs to be protected from failure, and the strategy for error detection and recovery?
* Are minimum machine memory and free disk space specified?
* Is the maintainability of the system specified, including its ability to adapt to changes in specific funcitonality, changes in the operating environment, and changes in its interfaces with other software?
* Is the definition of success included? Or failure?