# Lecture 3

## Smallest program in Scheme?
How about...
```scheme
#lang racket
(display "Hello") 
```

What about...
```scheme
#lang racket
1
```
###### (it's this one btw lol)
<br />

It simply just takes and evaluates the only expression in the code, and then prints it.

---
What do you think this returns?
```scheme
#lang racket
"Hello Racket"
```
Output:
> `"Hello Racket"`

---
How about...
```scheme
#lang racket
#t
```
Output:
>`#t` (true)

---
So why does this only output `"jackpot"`?
```scheme
#lang racket
(
    if
        #t              ; condition
        "jackpot"       ; consequent
        "jail"          ; alternative
)
```
* The expression directly after `if` is the <mark>condition</mark>
* The expression directly after the condition is the <mark>consequent</mark>. Is evaluated if the condition is `true`.
* The expression directly after the consequent is the <mark>alternative</mark>. Is evaluated if the condition is `false`.

> For example, if line 4 was changed to `#f`, the the output would be `jail`.

---
Another small program...
```scheme
#lang racket
`()
```
This is actually a list. Here is what the syntax looks like:
```scheme
#lang racket
`(ele1 ele2 ele3...)    ; separated by spaces
                        ; starts w backquote
```

---
Yet another program...
```scheme
#lang racket
(
    null? `()
)
```
Output:
> `#t`

This is a function call. This specific function checks if a list is empty.
* _Remember that the question mark is just part of the function name!_

Ok, so what if we didn't give the function a list? Something like `null? 5`


###### apparently this is supposed to throw an error but my output is:
###### > `#f`

---
## **SO...**
```scheme
#lang racket
(
    if
        (null? `())
        "jackpot"
        "jail"
)
```
Output:
> `"jackpot"`

---
Another Built-in Function
```scheme
#lang racket
(
    cons 2 `()
)
```
This is a function call that takes two arguments.
* It takes an element as the first argument,
* a list as the second,

And concats the element to the list.
* Concatted element goes to the _beginning_ of the list.

---
## *sigh*
```scheme
#lang racket
(
    cons 7 (cons 5 (cons 2 `()))
)
```
Output:
> `(7 5 2)` (i cant put another backquote in front of the parentheses so just imagine it's there)

