# Lecture 5
So so far we have been talking about 3 ways to define/specify inductive data:

1. Textual English
2. Inference Rules
3. Grammars

## What is this inductive data example defining?
```
S-list ::== ({S-exp}*)
S-exp ::== Symbol | S-list
```

> Zero or more symbols and/or `S-list`s.

## Can You Derive Something Like `((a))`?
Duh. Shoutout CSI 3430
```
S-list 
-> (S-exp) 
-> (S-list) 
-> ((S-exp)) 
-> ((a))
```

## How About...
```
Bintree ::== Int | (Symbol Bintree Bintree)
```
What does this define?
> A bintree:
either a single node (integer), or starts with open parantheses, with a symbol as the root, a left side (node) as a binary tree, and the right side (node) as a binary tree.

Pretty straight-forward; I don't feel like typing out examples.

## Yet Another Inductive Definition
```scheme
LcExp ::== Identifier   ; function decl
      ::== (lambda (Identifier) LcExp) ; lambda exp
      ::== (LcExp LcExp)    ; function call
```

* Essentially a function declaration in scheme.

Actually, this is a full-fledged programming language.

> Using a grammar, we defined the syntax of this entire language as an inductive data type.

A couple examples:
```scheme
(lambda (x) x)
LcExp -> (lambda (x) LcExp) -> (lambda (x) x)


((lambda(f)(f 5)) (lambda (x) x))
LcExp 
-> (LcExp LcExp) 
-> ((lambda (f) LcExp) LcExp) 
-> ((lambda (f) (LcExp LcExp)) LcExp) 
->((lambda (f) (f 5)) LcExp) 
-> ((lambda (f) (f 5)) (lambda (x) LcExp) 
-> ((lambda(f)(f 5)) (lambda (x) x))
```

## Program Derivation Using Smaller-Subproblem Principle (Recursion)
###### fuck.
* If we can reduce a problem to a smaller subproblem, we can call the procedure that solves the problem to solve the smaller problem.

> i.e. if your data type is inductive/recursive, then your code damn well better be recursive lmao

## Follow the Grammar To Convert Inductive Specification to Recursive Program
* When defining a procedure that operates on inductively defined data, the structure of the program should be **patterned after the structure of the data.**

## Follow The Grammar
1. Find variables in grammar
2. Write one procedure for each variable in the grammar
3. In each procedure, write one alternative for each procedure corresponding to that variable

So if you have 1 variable, how many procedures should you have?
> It's a shame I have to write this down but I assure you, I will forget. You need 1, btw.

## A Procedure To Determine Size of a List
```
List ::== () | (Scheme value . List)


on left side, size = 0 as the list is empty
on right side, size = 1 + size(list) as we just don't know without going all the way to the end of the list.
```

So, the procedure.
```
procedure list_length(()) = 0
          list_length((val.List)) = 1 + list_length(list)
```
